# Create an ASP.NET Core WebApi application

## Prerequisites
If you do not have .NET Core 2.0 SDK (or higher) installed, you can download it from [here](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/thank-you/dotnet-sdk-2.1.104-windows-x64-installer) and run the installer.

Please note that this is __required__ to be able to continue.

## Let's get started
The following is a guided tour using the dotnet cli for creating a WebApi application. You should be able to run the `dotnet` based commands in your _favorite_ terminal (e.g. bash, powershell and the likes). Some of the tools used (such as `curl`) might not be used dirctly as described here in `powershell`, but it should be fairly easy to adapt the commands.

Open up your favorite terminal and navigate to a folder that you want to place the source code in (you can of course also use Visual Studio if you like, but then you are on your own).

### Step 1: Create an empty solution
Run the following in your terminal:
````
dotnet new sln --name HelloWorld
````
This should add a single solution file to your folder. __Please verify__ before you continue.

### Step 2: Create an empty WebApi project
Run the following in your terminal:
````
dotnet new webapi --name HelloWorld.WebApi
````
This should create a folder with the name that you provided in the command above. Inside is the files that make up an ASP.NET Core application. __Please verify__ before you continue.

_Please note: you can of course use another name, but you will have to use that througout the rest of the guide._

### Step 3: Add project to solution file
Run the following in your terminal:
````
dotnet sln HelloWorld.sln add HelloWorld.WebApi/HelloWorld.WebApi.csproj
````

### Step 4: Compile to solution
Run the following in your terminal:
````
dotnet build
````

### Step 5: Run the application
Run the following in your terminal:
````
dotnet run --project HelloWorld.WepApi
````

Verify that the application is running by running the following in your terminal:
````
curl -i localhost:5000/api/values
````

You should get a response back similar to the following:

````
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 17 Apr 2018 13:24:50 GMT
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Server: Kestrel
Transfer-Encoding: chunked

["value1","value2"]
````

Now you can open the solution in _Visual Studio_ to verify that everything looks as expected.

## Now let's change the code
Open the solution in _Visual Studio_ and start by renaming the `ValuesController` inside the `Controllers` folder to `HomeController`.

Remove all the code inside the `HomeController` class and make sure to also remove any __attribute__ annotations that the class might have.

You should now have the following:

````csharp
public class HomeController : Controller
{
    
}
````

Place a `Route` attribute on the `HomeController` class like this:

````csharp
[Route("")]
public class HomeController : Controller
{
    
}
````

This will tell the routing engine that all root urls should go to this controller.

Add an action/method on the class to handle a request to THE root url like the following:

````csharp
[Route("")]
[HttpGet]
public IActionResult Index()
{
    
}
````
_Please note that the `Route` annotations can be done in several different ways - this is just one of them!_

In this example we are using one of the many ways to return simple content in the response to the client. We are using the `this.Content(...)` method available on the `Controller` base class that we are inheriting from. We are going to give the `Content(...)` method two arguments e.g. the _hello world_ string that we want to be returned to the client and a MIME type indicator. It should look something like this:

````csharp
[Route("")]
[HttpGet]
public IActionResult Index()
{
    return Content("hello world", "text/plain");
}
````

So by now your `HomeController` class should look like this:

````csharp
[Route("")]
public class HomeController : Controller
{
    [Route("")]
    [HttpGet]
    public IActionResult Index()
    {
        return Content("hello world", "text/plain");
    }
}
````

Run your application again and verify the output by executing the following in your terminal:

````
curl -i localhost:5000
````

The output should be similar to this:

````
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 17 Apr 2018 13:28:36 GMT
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
Server: Kestrel
Transfer-Encoding: chunked

hello world
````

You are now ready to package your application into a container image and spinning up containers.