# Docker docker docker

## Step 1: Hello world
Let's verify that everything is working by running the following in your terminal:
````
docker run hello-world
````
Verify that the output is comming from the container (by actually reading it!).

## Step 2: Let's go linux
Let's spinup a container with a very slim version of linux. There is an image on the official [docker registry](hub.docker.com) called `alpine`. This is a very small and popular image that is fast to download.

Run the following in your terminal:
````
docker run -it alpine
````
The `-it` options passed to the `run` command will attach your host `stdin` and `stdout` to the container and enable you to interact with the container and receive output from the container.

You should now be inside a linux container. List the contents of the filesystem by running:
````
ls -la
````
Verify that the list is NOT similar to the contents of the filesystem in your current working directory on your host.

Exit the container by running the following command (inside the container):
````
exit
````
Verify that you have exited the container and returned to your host.

## Step 3: Let's modify the running container
Now we are going to create a file inside the container and verify that it is __not__ created on the host also.

Start a new container by running the following command:
````
docker run -it alpine
````
You should now be inside a container again. This is __NOT__ the same container as before!

Create a file by running the following in your terminal:
````
touch test.txt
````
Verifyh that the file was created by running:
````
ls -la
````
Now exit the container (just like before e.g. run `exit` inside the container).

Verify that the file has not been created on your host.

## Step 4: The Dockerfile
Let's look at the bare minimum of commands that you need inside a `Dockerfile`. A Dockerfile is used to describe how a container should be built. This is compiled into a container image by using the `build` command.

### Step 4.1: Simple image
First let's build our own container image and we will use `alpine` as the base. Create a file named `Dockerfile` (please use the exact same casing). Open the file in your favorite text editor and add the following:

```dockerfile
FROM alpine
ENTRYPOINT [ "sh" ]
```

This will instruct docker to build an image based on `alpine` and when a container is started the entrypoint should be an execution of the command `sh` (which will just start ud a shell inside the container).

Let's build a container image from this by running the following command:

````
docker build -t firstimage .
````
Please remember to include the trailing dot (`.`) in the command above!

This will build a container image with the tag `firstimage` based on `alpine`.

Run the following command to see a list of the available images on your host:
````
docker images
````
Verify that both `alpine` and `firstimage` is listed as images.

Now let's run a container based on the image we just created by running the following:

````
docker run -it firstimage
````
You should now be inside a container that is based on the `firstimage` image.

### Step 4.2: add content from the host
Now let's add a file from the host and into the image so it will be available the container is fired up.

First we will create a file by running the following command:
````
echo test >> test.txt
````

Now modify you `Dockerfile` so it looks like the following:

```dockerfile
FROM alpine

RUN mkdir /test
COPY ./test.txt /test

WORKDIR /test

ENTRYPOINT [ "sh" ]
```

By adding the `COPY` command to the `Dockerfile` you indicate that when the container is built, it should copy a file from the host filesystem and into the container image.

Let's build a new container image:
````
docker build -t secondimage .
````

And run a container based on that image:
````
docker run -it secondimage
````

Verify that the file is copied into the container and available by running `ls -la` (inside the container).