# A build script

Before we can package our application into a docker image, we need to create a small build script.

We will not provide you with a concrete fully working example of such a script, we will only provide a pseudo version.

A little help can be obtained by running the following command:

````
dotnet --help
````

And help information for a specific command can be obtained by the following:
````
dotnet build --help
````

## Steps in the script
These are the steps that we recommend to include in the build script:

* Remove the output folder (if is exists)
* Create the output folder (e.g. name it `output`)
* Restore NuGet packages
* Clean any previous release configuration output
* Build your WebApi project with release configuration and redirect the output to your `output` folder

Run the script and verify that it does what is expected.

## The Dockerfile
Modify your Dockerfile (or create one if you haven't already) and add the following content:

```dockerfile
FROM microsoft/aspnetcore:2.0

RUN mkdir /app
COPY ./output /app

WORKDIR /app

ENTRYPOINT [ "dotnet", "HelloWorld.WebApi.dll" ]
````

Build a container image locally by running the following command:
````
docker build -t helloworldapp .
````

Let's run a container based on the image that you just built. 

__Please note:__ until now we were running the WebApi application on port 5000, but when compiled it will default to port 80.

We will run the container and map a port on your host (e.g. port 5000) to the default port that our application is listening on __inside__ the container. We can use a port-mapping option to the `run` command named `-p [from-host-port]:[to-container-port]`.

Run the following:
````
docker run -it -p 5000:80 hellowoldapp
````
Verify that the WebApi is working by navigating to `localhost:5000` with your browser.
## Append a build step
Go back to your build script and append this step:
* Build a container image using the updated Dockerfile and tag it with something like `helloworldapp`.

Run the build script again and verify that your application was built and a container image was built (remember the `docker images` command).

## Almost there!
Let's push the container image to a registry so that it can be pulled by e.g. Kubernetes.

To do so we need to tag our image with an additional tag named after the registry that it will be pushed to.

Run the following to tag the image:
````
docker tag helloworldapp [registry url]/[your name]-helloworldapp:v1
````
Where `[regustry url]` is the url we provided for the registry and `[your name]` is your name.

When the image has been tagged with the registry url, your are ready to push the image to the registry by running the following command:

```
docker push [registry url]/[your name]-helloworldapp:v1
````

Verify that your image is available in the registry by navigating to the following url in your browser: `[registry url]/v2/_catalog`

Your container image has now been published to the registry! _Congratulations!!_

Add the last two steps to your build script:
* Tag you newly built container image with the url of your registry (and include a version indicator e.g. `:v1`)
* Push the container image to the registry

Done!